# Considerations and Limitations for Lambda Functions

**Considerations and limitations**
- Supported languages
- Size and resource limitations
- Other considerations

**Lambda prerequisites**
- Gathering dependencies
- Writing code
- Function packages
- Debugging

**Deploying our Lambda canary**
- Walkthrough

In this module, you'll learn about current limitations to **AWS Lambda**, and considerations that you should have regarding those limitations. 
- First, we'll review the **runtime languages** supported by Lambda.
- Then, we'll take a look at some of the **size and resource limitations** that we could encounter when we're setting up our **Lambda functions**. 
- We'll also take a look at a few other considerations we'll need to keep in mind when making a **Lambda function**.

Next, you'll learn the steps that you need in order to deploy your function to AWS. 
- We'll start by **gathering our function dependencies**, and we'll also see how we can **write code locally** and also within the **AWS Editor** in the console, 
- We'll also learn about **function packages**, and how to deploy them to Lambda.
- We'll also take a close look at how we can **debug** our Lambda functions effectively.

Lastly, we'll take a moment and **deploy our Lambda canary**. We'll walkthrough all the required steps and set our canary to run on a regular schedule.

## Considerations and Limitations

Lambda is only a few years old, which means there's still a variety of limitations when it comes to using it. We'll take a look at some of the hard and soft limits that Lambda has, as well as what this means for us when we're building our applications.

### Picking Function Runtimes

| Python | Node.js | Java  | C# |
| --- | :---: | :---: | ---: |
| Python 2.7 | v0.10.36, v4.3.2 | Java 8 | C# |

One of the first decisions you'll need to make when getting started with Lambda is a function runtime. Your options are using **Python 2.7**, or writing code in **JavaScript with Node.js**. With **Node**, you actually have 2 options, to either use the **0.10.36** or **4.3.2** version. You can also use **Java 8** or the recently released **C#** runtime. In this course, will be using **Python 2.7** exclusively, but it's completely possible to mimic the functionality in other languages, especially if you're more confortable with them.

### Size Limitations

```
- Uncompressed code & dependencies < 250 MB
- Compressed function package < 50 MB
- Total function packages in a region < 75 GB
```


One of the primary limitations you'll want to be aware of when working with Lambda is it has several file size limitations. Whenever you're making a Lambda function, you have to evalute the file size of all your **uncompressed code and dependencies**. 
- The **uncompressed file size** must be **less than 250MB** in order for you to deploy it to Lambda. Additionally, your compressed code and dependencies, after zipping up your function package, must be **less than 50MB**. Additionally, the **total file size of all function packages in a region** must remain **below 75 GB**.

#### Size Limitations - Workarounds

- Smaller libraries
- Microserivce architecture

If you encounter any of these limitations as you continue working with Lambda, keep in mind that for many of these size limitations, these are a few workarounds. I found that when I encounter a library that's larger than I expected, I can usually find a more succinct library with less dependency bloat. This can frequently share some needed megabytes off my total function package size, both whilte compressed and uncompressed.

In addition to searching for smaller libraries, you can also make more specific architectural decisions. Rather than having a massive code monolith that performs all the operations you need, think about how you can break that up into discrete parts that can each serve as a component of the work that you need to do.
As an example, let's pretend your application needs to run large image processing libraries that each perform consecutive actions on some file, maybe to resize it, and then to apply some styling or formatting. Rather than loading them all into the same functions, **split them up into separate functions** that hand off the partially processed file at each step. This way you don't have to have every library in each function. Another thing to consider is that maybe there's actually **another language** that offers a more compact solution to the problem that you're working with. If you're working in **Python**, take a look at how **Node** can handle a task. If you're using Java, check out Python. There might not alwaysbe a more concise solution in a different language, but it's certainly worth a look.

### Resource Limitations

```
- Ephemeral storage < 512 MB
- Maximum execution duration < 300 seconds
- Concurrent Lambda functions < 100
```


There are several other **resource limitations** to keep in mind when using **Lambda**. 
- The first is that the **ephemeral storage** limitation is 512 MB. This means that if you need to work with files locally, on the machine that your code executes on, then they better not be bigger than 512 MB. 
- There is also a **maximum execution duration** on all of your Lambda function of **300 seconds**. This means that after 300 seconds, your Lambda function will time out automatically. This is important to note, because if you're running tasks that have high latencies, or depend on other services, this can affect you. The 300 seconds timer is still running when Lambda is waiting on something like database query or an API request. 
- Furthermore, you have to limit of **100 concurrent Lambda functions**. This might sound like a relatively low number, but keep in mind that many Lambda functions run within a second or a few seconds.

#### Resource Limitations - Workarounds

```
- Load and store files in S3
- Chain functions together
- Ask AWS about increasing limits
```

If you ever encounter these limitations, there are also a few ways to avoid being impacted by them. Let's say you have a several gigabyte log file that you need to be processed. Instead of being litmited by the 512 MB of **ephemeral storage**, consider downloading that file to **S3**, and then processing it in **incremental chunks**. 
For example, you could break up the log file into **500 MB chunks**, and then process those within your Lambda function for each of those chunks. In order to avoid running up against the maximum execution duration of **300 seconds**, consider chaining functions together that are discrete parts of your application logic.
For example, let's say you like to use Lambda to assist in a data warehouse pipeline. Instead of using a single function to extract, transform, and load the data into your warehouse, you use 1 Lambda function to query and store raw data in S3, use a second function to process that raw data, and store it in a new bucket, and lastly use a third function to take that process data and load it into your data warehouse.
Using this can help you avoid those limitations. Lastly, there are several cases in which AWS will simply imcrease your limitations if you just ask. If you're interested in getting more than 100 concurrent Lambda functions, simply contact AWS and see if they can change the restrictions on your account. It never hurts to ask.

### Memory, CPU and VPC

```
- Memory 128 MB - 1.5 GB
- CPU scales with memory
- Virtual Private Cloud
```

There are a few more things to keep in mind when you're configuring your Lambda functions, 
- the first of which is to make sure that's you're allocating a reasonable amount of memory to your function. You can choose to give the function anywhere from 128 MB to 1.5 GB of memory to use.
- **CPU** doesn't have a setting within Lambda's configuration, but it should sacle proportionally with the memory allocation that you give it in your function. So if you double the memory for your function, it should also double the available **CPU**. 
- Another thing to think about is that if you need to use Lambda to have it access AWS resources within the **AWS Virtual Private Cloud**, or **VPC**, you'll need to configure it to do so.

A **VPC** is a virtual network specifically for you **AWS account**. It blocks access to your **AWS services** from outside of the **VPC**. While Lambda runs within an **AWS VPC** by default, it doesn't have access to resources within your private **VPC**, Essentially, keep in mind that if you want your Lambda function to be able to talk to other resources within your private **VPC**, such as Redshift data warehouses or RDS instances, you'll want to provide a **VPC** access for Lambda. So what are some file considerations you should have when using AWS Lambda? 


```
- Event driven code
- Code size limitations
- Lambda as a component
- Performance limitations 
- Long running workloads
```


Well keep in mind that **Lambda is purely event driven**, be that often API request, some file being uploaded to S3, or a regularly scheduled event triggering it at a present time. Make sure your use case can fit within that. Remember that there are also **code size limitations** that we mentioned. Remember that if you have a very complex and monolithic application that doesn't seem to have an easy way to decouple itself into smaller discrete parts, you're going to have a hard time running that within Lambda. Also think about how you can use Lambda to complement a larger whole. Lambda can be integrated with a variety of services, which makes it ideal to power microservices into regular workloads, but keep in mind that you may need to refactor your applications into more distinct Lambda functions, rather than a monolithic application architecture. there are also real performance limitations to Lambda. If you need significant amounts of processing power altogether, and there's no way to break up your workloads into smaller chunks like we discussed, Lambda won't be able to help you. because of that memory limitations of 1.5 GB. Lastly, if you have exceptionally long running workloads, you might not be able to reconcile them with Lambda's timeout limitations. With that context aside, let's take a look at what we need to deploy our first Lambda functions.