# Lambda Prerequisites

In this section, we'll be looking at all the components that we'll be putting together to deploy our first Lambda function. These should primarily be runtime agnostic, but keep in mind there will be some minor differences between deploying Python, JavaScript, and Java code to Lambda. To keep this course more succinct, we're looking exclusively at the Python deployment process, but the Node and Java deployment processes closely mirror it.

## Lambda Canary

```
step 1: Set run interval
step 2: function reviews website
step 3: website status recorded

```

So in this module, we're building our **Lambda canary** for Woof Garden. As we mentioned before, this function has three main parts. 
- First, it's set to run on an interval, triggering the function every few minutes. 
- After the function is trigged, it makes a request to Woof Garden's website, and reviews the status of that website. 
- Once it does that, our function then logs the status of the website for future review and performance eveluation.

Now let's take a look at how we'll be preparing this.

### Gathering Dependencies

```
 - Libraries
 - Other files
 - AWS services
 - API keys
```

- The first step to deploying your function is to gather up all the dependent parts you'll need for that function.
  - First, you'll need the **external libraries** that your function will be using. For Python, this means everything that isn't installed in the **Python 2.7** standard library. When you deploy a Lambda function, any additional dependencies will need to be bundled up with your code. 
  - Additionally, you'll want to include **other files** that your function relies on, such as HTML templates or configuration files. 
  - Next, you'll need to audit the **AWS services** your function will be interacting with. Does it send queries off to Dynamo DB? Does it require integration with the API Gateway? Each service that Lambda interacts with is another service that need **explicitly IAM permission to access**, and you'll need to make sure it has these permissions within the role that you assign it.
  - Lastly, you'll need to make sure that your function has all the **API keys** and **configuration information** it needs. Fortunately, Lambda functions are given some **default AWS configuration** based on the role you provide them. However, if you need to have your function interact with **an external API** or **a database**, it will likely need some sort of credential information to do so. We'll talk about some best practies for this occasion more in depth in a later module, but it's still good to keep in mind now.

### Writing Code

```
- Locally
- In AWS editor
```

When you're writing the content of your Lambda function, you essentially have a few options. 
- You can write the code locally in your preferred IDE, and then bundle it up or copy and paste it into the console for deployment, 
- or you can write the function code directly into the **Lambda Editor** in the **AWS console**.

Fortunately for us, a recent update to AWS actually gives us a bit of both worlds. When you upload the function packages to AWS, which are your code combined with all your dependencies, you can actually edit your function file in the **Lambda Code Editor** to make fixes or change portions of the functions in your primary index file.

### Creating a Function Package

So what do you do when you've prepped all your function code, your dependencies, and you configuration information?

Well, you'll needed to zip all of that up into a function package, and a function package is essentially just a zipped archive of all function information that you can upload directly to the **AWS console**, or with the **AWS command-line interface**. Now, you'll only need to do this if you have things other than a single Python, Node, or Java file, because AWS does offer the ability just to edit a single file within the console.

### Debugging

```
- Use logging
- Environment differences
- Search for your issues
```

Once you've uploaded a function package, you'll need to make sure it runs properly. AWS allows you to test your functions with sample events to make sure that they run correctly at the time they're actually triggered. The more complicated your functions become, the more important it is to keep track of why they might fail. 
- First, use logging. It's important to know what portions of your function are running properly, and where the hiccup or error occurs on key portions of your function and the results that they generate, and these logs will be stored in **AWS CloudWatch**, a separate AWS service that keeps track of your logs and the logs from many other services. 
- Also, be aware of the differences between your **environment** that you're testing on and the **environment** that your function will run on. If you're testing function code locally on **OSX** or **Windows**, you'll need to remember that the function will actually be executing on **an Amazon Linux machine**. This is especially relevant if you have libraries that need to be compiled negatively on the machine that you're working on. An **easy way to avoid** that particular problem is to create a function package in **Amazon Linux on an EC2** instance, for example, where you're going to have the exact same environment that you will in a Lambda function.
- Lastly, if you start working more with Lambda, you're going to almost be guaranteed to run into issues that don't have an obvious solution. However, these's a growing community using Lambda, who have likely encountered the issue before, so don't hesitate to search for solutions that they're created or reach out directly to folks in the community. 

All right, that's the context we need. Let's jump into how we'll be deploying our first function.