# Identity And Access Management - Overview

We'll review a few key concepts of **IAM** that you'll need to know as you interact with **AWS** services, and we'll look at a few tools that will be useful for configuring **IAM** in the future.

Let's take a quick look at some of the terminology and concepts that are important to understand when you're working with **IAM**. 
- The first, and probably the most familiar concept, is that of an **IAM user**. **Users** are individuals like yourself and I. We might **log into AWS** with an email and password conbination, a multifactor authentication token, or we might use AWS with the AWS command-line interface and access keys. **Users** can have sets of permission in **IAM** that allow them to do certain things within the **AWS ecosystem**.
- Similary, there are also **IAM groups**. **Groups** are a collection of **users** that each share permission policies. This can be especially useful when you'd like to be able to easily standarized and manage permissions within a group of people. Rather than write a specific access policy for each user account, you can manage group policies that only require you to add and remove users from your groups.
- **IAM** also has the concept of a **role**. **Roles** are similar to users because they also carry with them a set of permissions that determines what a role can do. They differ, however, because they don't have access keys or login credentials, and they can be assumed by **AWS users** of **AWS services**, like **AWS Lambda**.

So how do all these concepts interact? Well, just for a second, let's imagine we have a bunch of users. Each of these users might be put into an **IAM group**, and within these groups, they might have certain **permissions**. In this way we can give only the resources needed by developers to developers, and only the resources needed by a data science team to data scientists. And each of these **group policies** is determined by **a JSON IAM policy**, and we'll take a closer look at this later, but this policy is usually managed by an administrator or security officer.

So how do **roles** come into play here? Well, **roles** are a more flexible concept that allows permissions to be granted to **AWS users**, **AWS resources themselves**, or **federated account users**, and this means that roles can be assumed by users or resources as needed, in contrast to the idea of a more permanent user of group.

Now, as an example, let's say we have two sets of virtual machines. With the first, we'll need to be able to read and write some marketing emails, and with the second, we'll want to be able to acces **KMS**, or **AWS's Key Management Service**. Now to do this, we'd need you to create roles with particular permission sets, that when assigned to the virtual machine, or the Lambda function, if we were using that instead, we'd allow them to access these **AWS resources**. Now these roles are based on JSON access policies that on themselves managed by some AWS administrator or security officer. So, what do these policies look like? Let's take a closer look at the actual JSON behind the policy.

```javascript
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": {
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "*",
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    }
}
```

Now, every **IAM policy** is a JSON object containing a few key elements.
- The first portion of the policy, as you can see here, is used to tell **AWS** what version of the **IAM policy** you're using. The main reason for this is to allow you to include policy variables within more complicated policies.
- The next section is the actual meat and potatoes of the **policy**. The effect portion specifies if an action should be allowed or denied, and the action portion tells us what particular actions can be or can't be taken, and the resource portion specifies what particular resource or resources that these effects or actions are in reference to. Now, this policy is exceptionally broad. It effectively grants permissions to anything and everything within the AWS environment to whatever user, group, or role that it is assigned.

Now while this is a great policy to use an example because of simplicity, it isn't a great policy to use in practice. So let's take a look at some of the **best practices** when dealing with **IAM** and security in your **AWS account**.

#IAM Best Practice

Now that you've created your **AWS account** and you understand some of the **IAM terminology**, let's make sure you're set up with a few practices as you move on. 
- First, always use strong and unique passwords on your **AWS accounts**. If you can, also setup two factor authentication with a hardware token or a mobile app like Google Authenticator. The principle of least privilege is a guideline that tells you to only give permissions out on an as-needed basis. So be sure to limit access tokens to your user accounts and services whenever possible.
- Next, be cautious when you're using your root account, and if possible, create a new administrator account, and you use that instead of the root account so you don't risk exposing your root credentials. Keep these practices in mind as you set up your AWS environment, and take a few minutes to apply these updates.

Now, let's take a look at what we'll be doing with **IAM** and setup everything that we'll need.