# Demo

```
AWS IAM Demo
- AWS Managed Policies
- AWS Policy Generator
- AWS IAM roles
```

In this demo, you'll be working with **AWS IAM**. We'll be examining Managed Policies, which are simple **IAM policies** that **AWS** has created by default and are ready for you to use.

We'll also take a look at the **AWS Policy Generator**. Now this is a tool both online and built into the **AWS dashboard** that'll be useful when creating your own custom **IAM policies** without having to write the **JSON policy** by hand. 

We'll also review a few **IAM roles** and make sure everything is in place for the roles and policies that we'll be needing later in the course.

Now let's load up the **AWS console** and get started with **IAM**. Go ahead and navigate back to the AWS console and click the **IAM** button in our recently pinned items. When you have a moment, I strongly suggest you go to through the security status checklist. Completing these items will significantly increase the security of your account. But for now, let's take a look at some of the managed policies that **AWS** offers. These are provided policies that make it easier to get started with **AWS services and permissioning**.
- Click the **Policies button** on the left-side menu to visit the **Policies page**. If this is you first time visiting the **Policies page**, you may also have to click the **Get Started button** an intermediary page. But once you get to this page, you'll see that there are a variety of policies that already exist within **AWS**. The reason for this is that these are managed policies that **AWS** creates in order to make it easier for you to get started with permissioning. If you'd like, you can search for particular policies that we'll be using throughout the course. 
- Entering in Lambda will allow you to see several of the policies that will be applying to our **Lambda functions**. There are a variety of policies to choose from.
For example, you could also search for policies specifically applying the **SES**. All of these managed policies are assentially structured JSON that has been pre-created by **AWS** for you.

Fortunately for us, all the policies we'll be creating are already created as managed policies within **AWS**. If you need to create a more structured or specific policy, you can use something called the **AWS policy generator**. Let's take a look now.

The **AWS Policy Generator** will easily allow you to create **IAM policies** and other types of policies without having to write out the JSON yourself. A qick Google search for [AWS policy generator](https://awspolicygen.s3.amazonaws.com/policygen.html) will lead you to this page, but you can also see the URL on the video. 

Now, I'll go through creating a sample **AWS IAM policy** that we could apply to a **Lambda function** that needs access to **SES**.
- The first step you'll need to take is to select a type of policy that you'll be creating. We'll be using IAM policies exclusively in this course, so select that from the dropdown list next to **Select Type of Policy**.
- The next thing you'll be doing is adding statement to the policy. These will essentially describe what you want the policy to do. Each statement within a policy contains several different parts, the first of which is the **effect** you want the statement to have. Would you like it to allow access to something, or deny it? Because we're creating a policy that allows access to a resource, we'll press **Allow**.
- The next portion of this will be to select the **AWS service** that we want this in reference to. We'll select **Amazon SES** from the dropdown list.
- Next, you'll select a servcie **specific action** that you'd like to allow or deny. In our case, we'll be selecting the **star**, which stands for every action underneath that service. Because we've selected **SES** as the service we're using, we don't have to specify an **Amazon resource name** of **ARN**. However, if selected a service like **EC2** of **S3**, there would be a particular **Amazon resource name** that we might want to apply to this policy. For example, if we wanted to allow permissions to a particular **S3 bucket** or a particular **EC2** instance, this would be where would select those options with the **Amazon Resource Name**.
- At this point, you can add optional conditions to your statement, which can include things ranging from the time of day that the policies applies, to the particular users that it's in reference to. 
- Once you've completed the policy as you'd like it, you can go ahead and click the **Add Statement** button to create an **IAM policy** out of that statement. If you wanted to add or deny additional permissions to this policy, you could go back and add more and more statements as needed until the policy matched what you're going for.
- Once you're done, you can press the **Generate Policy** button, This will create your **JSON policy** and you'll be able to copy and paste that into your **AWS console**.

There's lots of nuance in creating **AWS IAM policies**. Luckily for us, we'll be using exclusively managed policies created by **AWS** throughout this course, so we won't be spending too much time using **IAM**. Now let's take a look at everything we've done in this module, and see what we'll be doing next.

```
# Summary
## What we've done
- Building with Free Tier
- Understand AWS services
- Created IAM policies
## What's next?
- Out first Lambda project
```

Se let's take a look at what we've done in this module so far. We've gotten signed up for free tier, and we're ready to start building with it. We also know the limitations that free tier offers, as well as how to find out more information. We have an understanding of **AWS services**, and we know what we'll be working with throughout the rest of this course. We also took a look at **IAM**, and we understand how it integrates into the larger **AWS ecosystem**. We also managed to take a look at the **policy generator** and review **AWS** managed policies before creating our own policy. Fortunately for us, we won't have to do too much of that in the future, as we'll be sticking with those **AWS managed policies**.

So what's next? Well, in the next module, we'll be working on our first Lambda project, and by the end you'll have your first Lambda function up and running in the cloud. Let's get to it.